welcome to PC which gets tech talk today
we're looking at a new motherboard from
MSI the p55 GD 80 this one here is based
on the p55 chipset of course tons of
features and support as you would expect
from the latest and greatest and also
meant for the Intel Core i5 and i7 CPUs
obviously so if you've got the new Core
i5 750 for example with the LGA 1156
socket that's what would go in here ok
this board is truly meant for
overclocking starting with that dr. Moss
high quality components high efficiency
low power consumption smart it knows
when to turn off components that are not
needed and also conserve energy so it's
very efficient also to add on to that
it's got this heat pipe eight
millimeters thick that's 60% more more
actually than the average heat pipes
that you see on motherboards these days
so you got a high quality components
here it's gonna help cool down your your
CPU when you're overclocking for example
and you're increasing all these voltages
so truly this board is meant for
hardcore overclockers ok so if you're
looking for something like that 16 gigs
of ddr3 you're gonna be able to install
on those 4 slots that you can see there
and also for overclockers that have a
multimeter you can stick in your
multimeter in here and test the voltage
core your DDR all of that the voltages
can be basically accurately read right
and also you can unlock limitations that
the bias might only be showing you you
can increase only so much the voltage
well you can see that there's this
little switch box right beside where I'm
pointing at here and you can actually
unlock that so if we're voltage for your
multimeter you just stick in what you
want it to test so DDR voltage you put
in the DDR and your ground and then just
stick in your multimeter to unlock
limitations these switches allow you
time lock CPU voltage limitations for
example the multiplier for example all
that you can unlock here okay and now
moving along here you can see also the
eSATA connectors facing the proper way
so they don't interfere with your video
card very good IDE connector right
beside that if you still have an old
drive and of course more eSATA is on the
top so definitely raid support here
don't worry about it and towards the
corner you've got your i/o plugs there
for your case for example and just
beside that you've got these buttons so
you can actually while overclocking
reset or power things off and debug your
your overclocking has a nice led beside
it with the codes that you can check and
also this plus and minus button what is
that well that's actually direct live
overclocking so while you're in Windows
you can actually press those plus and
minus buttons on the board and it will
increase the frontside bus that base
clock adjustment frequency so the base
clock can be adjusted on the fly pretty
cool I like that and I'll show you the
results in a moment also right beside
that an overclocking genie button you
have power off your machine you press
that button you power it back on
automatically overclock your system
terrific okay so so many ways to
overclock it's not funny moving along
the side here you've got USB ports
obviously you've got the headers here so
you can have tons of USB support no
problem there your audio your CD audio
in all of the audio plugs firewire
support obviously on this board
try SLI crossfire support definitely on
there look at the back you've got the
ps2 connectors for your mouse and
keyboard
you got the coax optical you've got
firewire tons of USB as you can see and
eSATA as well do a LAN which is very
nice a lot of boards come with that
these days and of course your HD audio
at the back ok so pretty complete
looking so far let's look at some
overclocking how can we overclock well
this is my test system that I'm using
today the Core i5 750 CPU that's default
2.6 gigahertz ok got to HD 48 90s and
crossfire on here this is the default
without me overclocking nothing ok so
it's just installed and ready to go on
ms:i board and i have not touched
anything in the bias I did not do
anything to the system its reading it
nicely those are the values that's the
memory settings and now we're gonna go
to do some overclocking and see if we
can basically bump this up a level and
bring it up the over the three gigahertz
or even four gigahertz so next thing to
do here is to press that overclocking
genie button so remember when the
machine was off you press it you boot up
your machine it automatically calculates
all the voltages bus speeds everything
and 3.3 Giga Hertz is what it gave me
just like that okay without me doing
nothing it has a chipset on the
motherboard that does all that the
overclocking calculations for you and
then just that's it sets it up for you
then you can save the settings in your
bias and you're done there you go okay
so Northbridge frequencies that's the
memory timings everything it adjusted by
itself I didn't do anything okay that's
the the easiest overclocking that I've
ever done before then of course you've
got the direct base overclock remember
that plus and minus button that I showed
you beside there so here's the machine
is it's on and I'm gonna press the plus
button now and it's gonna increase the
bus speed and I've increased it from 133
megahertz to 197 okay already
it took me a while to I have to keep
pressing it and now I'm pressing it
again okay so slowly here and pressing
it again as you can see it's increasing
the 202 10 to 11 in each you can just
keep going until your machine locks up
of course or you can pause and then and
then run some stress testing some
torture testing on this and see if it's
stable or not right so there you go very
cool way of overclocking on the fly then
of course there's the regular bias
overclocking right you go into your bias
settings and you adjust the base clock
you're just a multiplier and that's what
I did I put the multiplier up to 21
increase the the bus speed and there you
go 4 gigahertz ok stable okay I'll make
a separate video about the core i5 750
so you can see benchmarks this video is
about the motherboard
it's a terrific motherboard for
overclocking lots of fun that I had
trying it out and I can't wait to put in
a core i7 in there as well in the
get very complete has everything
including the SLI and crossfire bridge
connectors which you don't really see
too many manufacturers giving those as
well in the in the case so it's very
nice lot they added that in their very
complete kit as you can see premium
package definitely for those that are
looking to overclock I'd recommend that
you get this and I'd like to thank MSI
for providing it and I hope you enjoyed
this video and thank you for watching